Hello everyone and welcome to the Kinnear's Neighbors Project solution's lecture this lecture.
We're going to be going through the solutions for the Kinnear's Neighbors Project.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK.
Here we are in our studio.
I'm going to go ahead and start off by calling library SLR and then checking out the head of the iris
dataset and let me shrink this a little bit and run this again.
OK.
Hopefully you're able to get that far.
It's just checking out their data set.
Like I mentioned in the previous lecture this is a data set that tries to basically predict the species
of the iris flower.
There's the Tosa virginica and versicolor next case or next step after this was to actually standardize
the data.
We'll go ahead and just put a newline script and we'll say scale the data.
This is a really important step with Kinnear's neighbors.
Everything in the state of frame or this data set is actually pretty OK as far as the same scale maybe
pedal with is a little smaller but a magnet order Magas is smaller than everything else.
But this is a data framework will it make a huge difference and not scale the data but just we're in
the mode of scaling data whenever you're going to use Kinnear's neighbors.
Let's go ahead and use scale to standardize the feature columns.
I'm going to make a new variable called Stand features and then it is going to cost scale and scale
function.
I'm going just going to pasan Iris columns 1 through 4 and then I'm going to go ahead and print the
variance lips of standard features make sure it all worked out and let me actually describe the variance
of one of these guys should be one that all makes sense.
Looks like the variance is one along the diagonal and that's perfect.
That's exactly what we want.
Let's go ahead and join the standardized data with the response target or label column whatever you
want to call it.
It's basically the column with the species name on it to make a variable called final data.
And then you see bind or column bind to say Stand-Up features
and then join the fifth column of the iris dataset.
That means I'm taking the scaled version of my data and joining it back with the original label which
makes sense because we don't want to scale or label.
In fact we can't scale or label it's just a words Tosa.
Then we're going to go ahead and do the train test splits.
Hopefully these various assignments we had to do were pretty easy for you and we put some new lines
here.
The train splits I went ahead and set C to 101.
That way if you're following along you get the same splits I do.
We're going to go ahead and call CAA tools and then we have our three lines that we always do.
We say sample that split
pass in a column from our data set.
In this case our data set is final data.
I always like to pass in the column that we're trying to predict this case it should be called species
.
Let's make sure
and then I'm going to say split ratio of 0.7 that way 70 percent of my data is going to be sample it
was true and I will set that as my training data
goinge tippity there.
And let's do the same for a test.
A subset final data take a sample.
That's where it's equal to false.
And then we're going to do is actually build the model and go in a little fast here.
But hopefully this was all pretty straightforward for you because it's basically exactly what we just
did in the previous lecture.
We're going to go ahead and call library class and then we're going to use the k and a function to predict
the species of the test set with equal to 1.
And this is the main step that I really want you to basically have down.
You're going to go ahead and make some variable in this case we'll call it predict that species you
call the K and end function and then you pass in for things you pass in your training data.
Your test data the label of your training data and then the value ones and you can actually see here
that our studio helps you out by reminding you the order train test.
C L K equals 1 etc..
I'm going to say train columns 1 through four.
The actual training data that I want my test data columns 1 through four that I want the labels of my
train data in this case that is species.
And then I specify what value I want.
We'll go ahead and start off of Keiko's one and then let's go ahead and Prince predicted species just
to make sure the salt worked out
okay perfect.
We have to predict the species for that test set where we're going to do now is just see what our misclassification
rate was.
We can do that by following the example I showed in the previous lecture where it's just the mean of
test species not equal to the predicted species value.
Let's go ahead and run that.
Check it out at our misclassification rate is about 4.4 4 4 percent not so bad.
But again remember this is a really small data set.
We're going to go ahead and do now is choose a k value.
And this is essentially the other half that I really want to understand and have down
and we're going to do this by plotting out the values.
I'm going to go ahead and say predicted that species is no.
And then the error rates is no.
Then I'll say for I in 1 through 10.
So the seed to 101 just to make sure if there's any rain the variations will be the same for you and
me if you're following along and I will grab the predicted species and set it equal to my Canon function
.
I will call a train on the features columns 1 through 4.
I will pass in my test data columns one for the features
then I will go ahead and grab train species and set K equal to I
and then I'll say error rate.
I is mean of the test species
not equal to predicted species.
Then we're going to go ahead and plot this out for the elbow method.
We'll go ahead and call library G-G plots 2.
And just like we did in the previous lecture to quickly make a data frame our values these are 1 through
10 member.
This should match the values used here then we'll say error that T.F. data frame passen error rates
and then pass in the K values.
And once that's done we're actually plot the data.
You can go ahead and say people Ju-Ju plot in this case my data frame is error that the F and I want
to pass x as equal to k values and Y is equal to error rate.
And you don't have to indicate sequel's or white girls.
I understand that to be a little more clear.
Well go ahead make a scatterplot and then I'm going to go ahead and also add a dotted line to that just
like we did in the previous lecture will say L T Y which is the line style is equal to dotted and then
we'll say color is equal to red.
Then we'll go ahead and finally print out that plot.
Let's see if this all worked out for us.
What's scootch this overside and zoom in.
OK.
If you can't see this let me go ahead and make the line just a little thicker and we'll go ahead and
add a size argument to this going to go ahead and say size equal to.
Let's try to that maybe a little too thick but we'll see.
Look at this isover zoom in on it.
All right.
But do we notice here your error rate drops down when youre increasing to from 1 K to cake to and essentially
stays the same all the way up to around 6.
It shoots back up again for a higher K and then shoots back down.
However he should know that the actual range of your error rate is quite small overall will either drop
down to about zero point or excuse me about 1 percent misclassification rate all the way up to around
6 percent misclassification rate.
Looks like our optimal k value should be somewhere around 2 to 6 ish.
Let's go ahead and just call it 3 as the optimal k we should choose.
Again the reason we get kind of this funky behavior is that the data is just too small.
It doesn't have that many observations in it for us to really use the elbow method effectively.
OK.
I hope that was helpful to you.
Go ahead and review the notebook if you want to look through any of this code.
But again the main idea is just scale the data do the train test splits.
Remember how to use the KNM function from the class library choose the K value by running this for loop
and then plot out the data for the method to figure out what's the best Katis.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture